#labels Phase-Deploy
= FAQ =

== General ==

*Why did you call it WANsim?*

I wanted a simple, easy to remember name. Obviously it needed to feature the word *WAN*. Simulation came about because I was simulating a real WAN. Of course, the term I should really have used is _emulation_. 

Unfortunately, it's a little late to change it now.


*What's the deal with certain settings being doubled? *

All of the settings in WANsim are applied to both interfaces. Some of these parameters may have a culmulative effect, meaning that it is added once for each interface. For example, if you set a latency of 15ms in the WANsim interface, your actual latency will be 30ms (15ms for interface 0 + 15ms for interface 1).

The affected settings are clearly indicated in the WANsim interface.

_WANsim 1.5-1 and above_

Affected settings:
 * Latency and variation
 * Packet loss
 * Packet corruption
 * Packet duplication

_WANsim 1.4-1 and below_

Affected settings:
 * Packet loss
 * Packet corruption
 * Packet duplication


*What do the Packet loss, corruption and duplication values actually mean?*

These values control the percentage of packets that are dropped, corrupted or duplicated respectively. For example, setting 1% packet loss would cause 1 in 100 packets to be dropped. Similarly, setting 0.1% packet loss would cause 1 in 1000 packets to be dropped. The smallest value possible is 0.0000000232% (which is 2^32^). 


*Is packet re-ordering supported?*

Setting large latency and variation (jitter) values will cause packets to be sent out of order. Please read the following section about [http://www.linuxfoundation.org/en/Net:Netem#Packet_re-ordering packet re-ordering] for more information. You should however note that this feature requires a recent 2.6 kernel. 


== Software ==

*Why write the whole thing as a bash script?*

Why not? I could have used Perl, but bash is more widely available, especially on resource limited boxes.


*What kernel do I need?*

You need a relatively recent Linux kernel. Any 2.6+ Linux kernel should do the trick.


*What modules do I need to enable/compile in my kernel?*

You will need:
  * 802.1d Ethernet Bridging module
  * Network Emulation module (it's under QoS/Fair Queuing)


*Do I need to configure my interfaces?*

No, WANsim will take care of configuring your interfaces and the bridge. If your interfaces require special modules to be loaded, you will still need to ensure that these are loaded.


*Do I really need sudoers installed?*

Strictly speaking you don't actually need sudoers to be installed. However, the WANsim interface offers an option that allows you to restart the WANsim init.d script. For this to work, you need to be able to run init.d scripts. This can be done via either sudoers (my preferred option) or changing the permissions bits on the script (a potential security hole).


*What's the default password for the wansim user?*

There isn't one. You need to set the password for the wansim user after you've installed the package. Use the UNIX _passwd_ command to do that. 


== Hardware ==

*What network cards can I use with WANsim?*

You should be able to use any standard network card that can be put into _promiscuous mode_. This will unfortunately rule out many wireless network cards as they don't interact nicely with the kernel bridging code (it requires promiscuous mode).


*How do I set my interfaces to 10/100/1000, Half/Full Duplex, etc?*

_WANsim 1.4-1 and above_

Simply copy the sample `interfaces.conf.sample` and call it `/var/lib/wansim/interfaces.conf`. Set the two interfaces to what you require. These interface settings will be applied at every boot by the wansim init.d script. Simply deleting this file ensures that the settings are no longer applied.

_WANsim 1.3-2 and below_

Simply edit `/var/lib/wansim/interfaces.conf` and set the two interfaces to what you require. You will also need to make `SETINTS=1`. These interface settings will be applied at every boot by the wansim init.d script. Setting `SETINTS=0` will leave the interfaces unchanged. This is the default behaviour.


*What is the maximum emulated network speed you can achieve?*

On a low end P4 I was able to achieve a 15Mbit throughput. I'm certain you'll get better results on more powerful hardware. I have informal reports of much greater throughput on new hardware. Your milage may vary.