#labels Phase-Deploy
= Installation =

WANsim can be installed either automatically or manually.


== Automatic installation ==

Use this installation method if you are using Ubuntu or Debian Linux. You will need to download the WANsim debian package. 

*Step 1: Install the debian package*

`dpkg -i wansim.deb`

*Step 2: Set the password for the wansim user*

`passwd wansim`

*Step 3: Login as wansim*

You can login as `wansim` via either:
  * Console
  * SSH to the host


== Manual installation ==

This installation method should work for any Linux variant. You will need to download the WANsim source code.

*Step 1: Unpack the source code*

`tar zxf WANsim.tar.gz`

_Note: at this point, you could try the new install.sh script. This duplicates most of the Debian package scripts. However, please use with care as it makes some assumptions_

*Step 2: Add WANsim user*

`adduser --system --group --shell /usr/sbin/wansimsetup --home /var/lib/wansim wansim`

`passwd wansim`

If you have sudoers installed, this line allows the WANsim script to start/stop the WANsim init.d script:

`echo "wansim ALL=NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d" >> /etc/sudoers`

Please note that the tool _service_ can be used to accomplish the same goals on different systems. 


*Step 3: Add WANsim init.d task*

`cp wansim /etc/init.d`

The following line assumes you are using Ubuntu or Debian:

`update-rc.d wansim start 10 2 3 4 5 . stop 60 0`

Please note that the tools _ntsysv_ and _chkconfig_ can be used to accomplish the same goals on different systems.


*Step 4: Add WANsim setup script*

`cp wansimsetup /usr/sbin/`


*Step 5: Add WANsim default configuration*

`cp wansim.conf.sample /var/lib/wansim/wansim.conf`

`cp interfaces.conf.sample /var/lib/wansim/interfaces.conf`


*Step 6: Login as wansim*

You can login as `wansim` via either:
  * Console
  * SSH to the host